---
title: "Amoeboid soft robot based on multi-material composite 3D printing technology"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Amoeboid soft robot based on multi-material composite 3D printing technology
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 3. The number 4 is left for future work.'
date: 2023-10-15
venue: 'Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials'
paperurl: 'https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0304885323010405'
citation: 'Deng, C., Dong, J., Guo, Y., Sun, X., Song, Z., & Li, Z. (2023). Amoeboid soft robot based on multi-material composite 3D printing technology. Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, 588, 171390. Q3. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmmm.2023.171390
'
---

A core–shell structured, amoeba-like, magnetically controlled soft robot is proposed for 3D printing using magnetically controlled smart materials and silicone materials. The purpose of this robot is to overcome the limitations of existing soft robot kinematic mechanisms that rely on the elastic deformation of flexible materials. The printability of the magnetically controlled smart material was verified through rheological tests. The effect of different component ratios on the rheological properties of the material was investigated and a suitable material ratio for printing was selected by adjusting the amount of SiO2 in the silicone and conducting rheological tests. Mechanical simulation was used to select and optimize the design of the amoeboid soft robotic shell structures. Printing was then used to verify the stability of the shell structures. The self-supporting capability of the magnetically controlled smart materials was investigated under different magnetic field strengths. To solve the problem of the phase of the magnetron smart material and the silicone material, the composite printing of the two materials was accomplished by adjusting the printing process. Soft robots mimicking amoebas were then printed and fabricated. The magnetron array-based driving method is proposed, and the magnetic field of the array used to drive the amoeba-like soft robot is constructed. The magnetic field of the array surface was then simulated under several different driving modes. Based on the simulation results, a suitable driving mode was selected. Using the material mechanism of the magnetron-only material sol–gel transformation, the pseudopod extension gait of the amoeba-like soft robot was designed, and the localized deformation of the amoeba-like soft robot was realized.
This paper leveraged the distinctive properties of magnetorheological smart materials to devise and fabricate an integrated 3D-printed soft robot. Such magnetorheological smart materials can function as both the supporting framework for hollow cavities and the propelling substance for the robot. During the course of this process, we investigated material properties pertinent to 3D printing and refined the design of the robot's structure and driving mechanism.
